README.md, before:

<h1>
<img align="left" width="140" src="https://pog.network/assets/pog.svg">
 &nbsp;PogChamp
</h1>

![GitHub release (latest by date)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/pognetwork/champ?label=version&logo=github&style=flat-square) ![](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/champ-wasm?style=flat-square&logo=npm) ![GitHub Workflow Status (branch)](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/pognetwork/champ/Testing/main?label=tests&style=flat-square) ![GitHub Workflow Status (branch)](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/pognetwork/champ/Audit%20Dependencies/main?label=audit&style=flat-square)

> POGs reference implementation in rust

<big><pre>
**champ**
├── lib # shared code
│ ├── crypto
│ ├── db
│ ├── log
│ └── p2p
├── node # pog node application
└── wallet # simple wallet (native) </pre></big>

For further information, check out our [`Documentation`](https://pog.network/champ)
or our [`Getting Started Guide`](https://pog.network/champ/developers/setup).

A list of all contributors and their specific contributions to this project is also available at [`pog.network/contributors`](https://pog.network/contributors)

Commit message:

docs: add link to taiga to readme
Signed-off-by: Henry Gressmann <mail@henrygressmann.de>

README.md, after:

<h1>
<img align="left" width="140" src="https://pog.network/assets/pog.svg">
 &nbsp;PogChamp
</h1>

![GitHub release (latest by date)](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/pognetwork/champ?label=version&logo=github&style=flat-square) ![](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/champ-wasm?style=flat-square&logo=npm) ![GitHub Workflow Status (branch)](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/pognetwork/champ/Testing/main?label=tests&style=flat-square) ![GitHub Workflow Status (branch)](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/pognetwork/champ/Audit%20Dependencies/main?label=audit&style=flat-square)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/-report%20a%20bug-blue?style=flat-square)](https://tree.taiga.io/project/henr-y-pognetwork/issues)

> POGs reference implementation in rust

<big><pre>
**champ**
├── lib # shared code
│ ├── crypto
│ ├── db
│ ├── log
│ └── p2p
├── node # pog node application
└── wallet # simple wallet (native) </pre></big>

For further information, check out our [`Documentation`](https://pog.network/champ)
or our [`Getting Started Guide`](https://pog.network/champ/developers/setup). We manage our bugs and tasks using [taiga](https://tree.taiga.io/project/henr-y-pognetwork).

A list of all contributors and their specific contributions to this project is also available at [`pog.network/contributors`](https://pog.network/contributors)
